---
layout: post
title: 'Thoughts on Hiring'
published: true
---

Currently, I am hiring for my team at WorldQuant Predictive which got me thinking a bit about the job interview and hiring process in general.  In my previous job I interviewed somewhere around 50 candidates and I expect that for the roels I am trying to fill it may end up taking around that many to find the right people.  I've obviously also been on the other side of the table plenty of times.  The flaws hold in both industry and academia.  I think a lot of what passes for interviews/hiring is fairly broken.  

Here are some things I've seen over the years indicating general brokenness.   

- **Being an asshole:** This should go without saying, but unfortunatelyu not everyone learned to try their best to be kind.  I've seen interviewers be rude/cocky to interviewees and try to project a sense of exclusivity or prestige to their team or role.  This should be an obvious red flag to look out for.  If an interviewer doesn't know to not be arrogant during an interview it speaks poorly about the process/team that put them in the position of conducting an interview. Just like not everyone is right for every job, not every employee is right for interviewing candidates.  Arrogance is only one form assholeness can take.  Interviewers whose style is combative, interruprive, smug, curt, or similar are also, obvious red flags.  
- **Ridiculous questions:** Hard questions are fine, but questions should at least be *well posed*.  I've seen and heard of cases where the interviewer was asking questions that simply were not well-formulated (in the strict sense of not having an actual, unique answer, or similar).  An example comes to mind of someone I know being asked during an interview the following question: "Is normal distribution stock model?"  This question isn''t grammatically correct, let alone well-posed.  Presumably the person asking the question meant to ask soimething like "Is the stock model a normal distribution?" - which, again, isn't well defined at all (*which* stock model? Are youy asking about *returns*? etc).  When the candidate asked for clarification, she was told by the interviewer to simply answer only yes or no (this REALLY happened). While some of these kinds of things happen at second-rate places, I've heard instances of very similar things happening at FAANG companies and Fortune 50 companies.  For obvious reasons, this is terrible design for an interview, not th least of which because it will screen for people who themselves either don't recognize that the problem is bogus or do but don't like asking questions.  Neither of these are desirable traits. This is in addition to the first-order effect of making your company appear to be staffed with blatantly incompetent people. 
- **Lack of feedback:** Reasonable places will let candidates have a sense of why they were rejected.  People put a lot of time into preparaing for interviews.  It's a stressful process, sometimes lasting months.  If the decision is to not proceed, there's no good reason to not at least give the person the respect of hearing some insight into why they weren't selected.  Worse, especially in academia, some places won't even *inform* the person they weren't chosen.  There will simply be infinite radio silence.  This is the mark of a dysfunctional, one-sided process.  Candidates are people.  They should be treated with respect. 

While not all companies or universities are are guilty of the above, I think the bad tend to outnumber the good, unfortunately.  

For myself, in hiring, I stick to the following guidelines, which are part of my general philosophy for interviews.  

- **Foundational knowledge:** I couldn't care less how many years experience someone has.  You could have a decade of experience doing terrible work.  Prior experience is known to be a weak predictor of competence/efficiency in most new roles.  I care about what someone knows, how well they understand fundamental concepts, what is the breadth and depth of their knowledge. Esoterica is fine, but I want to make sure the person can really explain what happens "under the hood" in the simplest models.  
- **Communication:** Communcation is two things: input and output.  I want to see both.  I want to make sure the person can express what's in their heads effectively and succinctly, but also that they listen.  I have had candidates begin answering questions before I had even finished asking the full question.  They (incorrectly) assumed the question was about X and proceeded to answer Y.  After letting them go through a long-winded solution to X I pointed out that they didn't let me ask the question I had wanted to ask. I know that a lot of this kind of thing can be chalked up to nervousness, and I am empathetic to that.  But, it's also a big red flag.  
- **Dumb questions:** I don't care what you think your biggest weaknesses are or whatever.  Frankly, I don't like the implications of that kind of question.  This isn't a therapy session, and I don't know what I'm supposed to learn about how well someone can do their job from getting an answer to that.  I won't ask about your biggest failures, your proudest moments, or any of the stock questions because well - for one it's too personal and not my business, and for two, I can't really assess how true any of the answers you give are.  I know people could make the argument that it's about assessing communication (or even preparation for the interview) but it seems to easy to game and to biased towards a certain type of speaker.  
- **Patience:** I try to let people know that they can take as much time as possible on a given question and to not race.  

